[Transcript missing]
So what are EAs good for?
I mentioned things like comments
and labels and things like that.
But it's basically used as a
generic method for being able
to do storing and retrieving of
attributes on a particular file.
And you want these attributes
to sort of live in the file
and follow the file around.
So if a user goes ahead and tags a
particular file in their desktop and then
sorts it into their documents folder,
that information then transmits
itself along with that file and
continues to persist with the file.
[Transcript missing]
attributes themselves are small,
again emphasizing small,
arbitrary data blobs.
We'd like to keep the limit
right now under 4 kilobytes.
There's many reasons for both
implementation and performance concerns.
This may be increased in the future
so we don't want you to statically
code this into your applications
but it would definitely stay under
the limit for at least Tiger.
They also contain separate
permissions for the files.
Again from the
AclTalk Mike Smith mentioned that
there's a particular right that you
can give not just to the file but
also to the meta-data associated
with the file so you can control
that with very fine-grained access.
The extended attribute is
treated as a blob entirely.
You can't do extended attribute
control over individual elements.
Where does it live?
Apple's come up with a very
ambitious goal of providing a file
system agnostic implementation.
If you're dealing with a file
system that's really modern and
supports these sort of functions,
it can be done there.
But also file systems that are much
older that don't have this concept
of extended meta-data you can
modify or it will be able to be used
transparently and be able to store
and retrieve this extended meta-data.
Again, these aren't streams though.
The extended attributes,
you want to keep them
down as key value pairs.
And one of the key distinctions
between these two is the extended
attributes are basically items
that you want to set atomically,
but you're not going to be able to
seek around this like as a large
data blob or separate file stream.
Currently for Tiger we're
planning HFS+ and AFP support.
HFS+ is on your Tiger DVD.
And it's backwards compatible.
Changed the volume format.
So it doesn't require a new format.
You can go ahead and have a
Panther machine do an upgrade to
Tiger and start to be able to set
these extended attributes on a file.
Now there's a caveat
associated with that.
If you now boot back into
Panther and look at a file,
the extended attribute information is
going to encompass the resource fork.
So you'll still be able to
access the resource fork in a
backwards compatible manner.
But any extended attributes
that you set in Tiger you won't
be able to view in Panther.
Moreover if you go ahead and try
to move that file on Panther,
you can also potentially
lose that metadata.
So it's recommended that you do
a full one-way transition when
going from Tiger to Panther as
far as metadata is concerned.
Other file systems is going
to be implemented in terms
of an Apple double file,
which is very similar to what
we do for resource forks today.
So for those of you who aren't
familiar with an Apple double file,
if I have a file with HFS+ I can
have two separate sort of data
containers within this file.
The data fork,
which is what you consider the
normal contents of the file
if you open it up in TextEdit,
that's what you see.
Also a resource fork.
Now some file systems can't
support the data and resource fork
within a single container object.
So there's a file format
called Apple double,
which if you have a file called my file,
you'll now get a dot underscore
my file and that will contain
all the resource information.
And this will allow us on NFS and
UFS and other file systems that don't
support extended metadata directly to
be able to still contain this metadata.
When I mention copy engines,
there's a very broad
term for copy engines.
Anything that deals with files,
that opens them up and saves them,
potentially has a copy engine.
If you're at the POSIX layer and
you have a file called foo and it
has an extended attribute blob,
and you open it up in an editor,
your editor might make a copy foo.temp,
which is where all the
modifications get done.
When the editor goes to save that file,
it doesn't have a copy of the
extended attributes because it's not
aware of the extended attributes.
Then you'll end up losing
those extended attributes.
That will represent metadata loss.
As time progresses,
we expect this extended attribute
information to become very valuable,
so your users are not going
to want to be able to lose it.
In this particular case,
we're looking at a
possible trick to help you.
If you create a copy of a file
and it doesn't have any extended
attributes and you try to rename
it on top of another file,
there might be some things that
we can do to help save you.
Other things we're doing or at
least investigating to sort of ease
the transition between the sort
of metadata-less sort of world and
more of this extended meta-data.
If you have an application that
currently supports meta-data
but through a different API set,
like both FreeUSD and
Linux support sort of POSIX layer,
you know, extended attribute API,
we're investigating providing
compatibility with that so your
application would just work.
We're not quite sure exactly what
the usage coverage is in this
and since there is so much work,
again, I'm not promising anything
but we're trying to make your
lives as easy as possible.
Other things like a copy engine API.
Some of us when we're looking
at a lot of these codes,
I mean,
there's probably a dozen copy engines
in Mac OS X alone if you sort of
look around and it's sort of silly,
you know, not to have a particular
call where I can say,
you know, copy this file.
In particular with both
extended attributes and
ACLs going into the system.
It might be nice.
For developers to be able to
say just call this copy API,
any changes that we sort of add to
the file system layer will be sort
of shielded from and the copy will
always copy everything that's there.
Also support things like
external serialization.
Being able to say take the
extended meta-data from file foo,
extract it out and then
put it on the file bar.
There are lots of cases where that
sort of functionality would be very
useful and to encapsulate it into
a particular library is something
that that we're looking at providing.
Also, we've gotten a lot of complaints
about the ._files on things like
NFS mounts and looking at Reader
filtering out those ._files because,
again, that resource half of the
Apple double file isn't really a file.
I mean, it sure looks like a file.
It kind of smells like a file.
But it really shouldn't
be treated like a file.
So if you wanted to go ahead and
iterate through a directory of files
and studying the extended attributes,
you wouldn't want to be trying to
set the extended attributes on the
container that's holding the file.
You're just building
your extended attributes.
That's just not valid behavior.
So although they're there,
looking at possibly providing a
mechanism to be able to mask those out,
but, again, if that provides a problem,
an option so that they still show up.
Conversely, in the other direction,
if you've ever shared an
HFS plus volume over NFS,
you don't have any of those .underbar
files that are actually there.
And this provides some sort
of problems for applications
depending on how you share things.
Now, by far the best thing you can
do is go ahead and use AFP,
which will be, you know, completely,
have a complete layer of support
for the extended attributes.
But in some situations, you know,
we know that that's not possible.
So we're looking at trying to
mitigate that sort of transition.
So again,
we're basically at a point now where
we have Apple double revisited.
Before we had the command line
utilities weren't really aware
of these sort of files and they
didn't really respect them.
But for Tiger,
we're planning full command
line support for all of the
utilities that access files.
So if you have extended attributes
associated with a particular file and use
copy or move or ditto or you use R sync,
we're looking at ways of either
extending the protocol where
possible or just going and using
the Apple double file over the wire.
Archivers, tar, zip,
be able to make archives of things and
not have to worry about whether or not
you're preserving the metadata or not.
And then the command line
editors and things like that.
Basically sort of making it so that you
don't have to use the sort of R sync X,
tar HFS, these projects on the web that
have involved in the data.
So we're going to sort of fill
this space where Apple sort of,
you know, sort of neglected their command
line users being able to treat
this data as first class data.
So, the short of it is, tiger to tiger,
you know, should just work.
And anything that, you know,
any place where that doesn't work,
it's definitely going to be a bug.
Now, tiger to non-tiger,
we absolutely want to support,
but there are a lot of very tricky issues
and a lot of very tricky situations.
The matrix of compatibility
is actually very,
very large if you iron it out.
We've looked at a lot of these issues
and trying to come up with the best
scenario and the best situations to
be able to deal with those situations.
But it is going to be somewhat
difficult while everyone transitions
to be able to support this metadata.
Fortunately,
from past history and stuff like that,
everybody should be using this
stuff within 10 or 15 years.
Here's an overview of the API.
All the functions that you need are
stored in sysxaddr.h and userinclude.
And there's one particular
important data structure,
xaddr.io, which contains an XA position,
which is basically a
reserve for future use.
For now, we want you to set that to zero.
XA size should be the
size of an attribute.
And then an XADATAPointer,
which is going to be a block of
data that you've allocated to be
able to store these attributes.
And then there's going to be
basically three sets of functions:
setXaddr, getXaddr, and listXaddr.
And corresponding components that
are prefixed to the letter F,
that instead of dealing
with file names directly,
deal with file descriptors
as the arguments on files.
[Transcript missing]
To read that data back,
we go ahead and have a test file,
confu-mothership-url,
and we'll make a call to get x-addr.
But in this particular case,
the third argument you'll notice is zero,
which would normally be that
pointer to the x-addr-io struct.
This tells the API to return the size
of the particular value of that key,
so you can then go ahead and allocate
the appropriate amount of storage.
So we go ahead and set x-is
to x-a size for x-a attribute,
and then malloc sufficient data.
Calling again, now with a pointer to
the x-addr-io struct.
Again, negative one indicates an error.
Otherwise, it should be set correctly.
Now that you can set and
get these attributes,
how do you find out what particular
attributes are signed on a file?
That's using the listXAdder API.
Very similar to the getXAdder API,
if the third argument is null,
it returns the amount of space required
to hold all of the particular keys.
The format returned by listXAdder is
a series of null terminated strings
that are concatenated together.
So we go ahead and malloc sufficient
size to be able to store the block,
call listXAdder again.
And then to iterate over that block,
you just go ahead and have like a
little pointer to the first key,
and then while you're still
within that range of that block,
you go ahead and increment by
the length of that particular
key plus its null terminator.
So now I have a couple little
demos and things like that.
Unfortunately for the WWDC build,
you do have support for HFS.
But the copying utilities and things like
that like CPMV haven't been included yet.
Some of that work is
still yet to be done.
We have three parts to this demo.
First we'll go ahead and we
have a couple of command-line
utilities that we'll be using.
These aren't going to be shipping
in Tiger but they'll be some sort
of interface very similar to it
that allows you to both store and
retrieve the extended attributes
directly from the command-line.
So let's start with an
empty file called foo.
Set an attribute on it, com, Apple, demo,
and the value being metadata is cool.
I'll go ahead and set another thing,
a comment, you know,
the command-line rocks.
And give credits to a person named Kevin.
LSX, you can go ahead and
list these attributes,
indicates the length of the attribute,
the key name and also the value.
You can see I have modified
CP here so if I do CP foo and bar
and do a list on them you can see
the metadata is being preserved.
You can also do things like symlinks.
Again, listing on a symlink,
you could list on a backing file.
With those options,
you can control whether or not
you read the extended attribute
information off the file itself or
you can also put extended attributes
on the symlinks themselves.
You can also put extended
attributes on directories.
in this case you'll see system.finder
info is set by default on symlinks.
For hard links,
you have the extended attribute
information show up just as you'd expect.
If you delete an
extended attribute value,
in this case removing com apple credits,
you'll see that it's been removed from
the hard link end and the actual file.
[Transcript missing]
I also mentioned that you should
be modifying your copy engines
and show this is a pretty
straightforward sort of mechanism.
I'm going to walk through function.
It's 80 lines and does all the
work that you need to be able to
do to take one file name and then
extract all the extended attributes
and save it on another file.
So we'll start with the
options for the argument,
the source file name,
destination file name, and those options.
We'll have a set of local variables,
a name for iterating over the key space,
like in that for loop that
I showed on the list x adder slide,
a name buff to be able to store the
names returned from list x adder,
and an attribute buff to be
able to hold the attributes
as we get them and set them.
Again, the x position argument
should be set to zero.
So much like we showed on the slide,
listx adder with a null gives you the
size and you can malloc a block and call
it listx adder again with the appropriate
information being set and you'll have all
of the names stored in this name buffer.
Now we'll iterate over the list of names.
Again, that's the four-loop construct
where we keep advancing by
the length of the string.
And then we'll need to determine how much
space is necessary for the attribute.
You know, allocate that space,
get the attribute,
then set the attribute.
And again,
that's relatively straightforward.
Get xAdder with the third
argument being null.
Save that as xA size.
Call malloc,
allocate the appropriate amount of space.
Save that in the dataport argument.
Get the attribute.
:::: and then move us to
the top of the screen.
and call set x adder
setting that attribute.
The reason I did this in the
terminal and the slides is so now
I can give a demo of that running.
So we'll touch a file foo,
touch a file bar,
set a series of attributes
on that file foo,
and then call this ‑‑ sorry,
I'm listing now the
attributes on foo and bar,
notice no attributes on bar.
Execute this copy x adder utility
and copying them from foo to bar,
doing the list again shows you the
attributes have been preserved.
So again, the amount of work necessary
to go ahead and preserve this
metadata isn't that hard,
but adding it to the
appropriate locations,
not just again these files that
you create but also any directories
that you create is pretty critical.
For the second part, you need to show,
so let's touch a file foo,
touch a file bar, set a bunch of testing,
oops, wrong one.
Sorry.
: I did that, didn't I?
All right.
First, I want to look at the source.
What's an example of
using extended attributes?
I thought of something that's
probably something that you
shouldn't be doing by default,
but illustrates an
interesting sort of point.
I'm going to be saying profile
encryption using an extended
attribute to store key information.
One of the reasons why I'm doing this
is because you don't want to go ahead
and be searching for the particular key,
like through a list of files.
That's not a common operation.
But you do want that information
to be persistent across,
you know, copies and moves and things.
So we'll open up a file.
I can actually scroll
around with a pointer.
Open up a file.
And then we're going to try to get a key.
We have this little function
called get attribute.
Takes a file pointer,
the name of the attribute,
and a small little
buffer to store this key.
And then we'll call encrypt
on it and then be done.
Getting the attribute.
Again, XA position should be null.
Setting the attribute buff,
data pointer value and the size.
And then calling the
variant X or F get X adder,
which I mentioned takes the first
argument as a file descriptor
as opposed to a file name.
and then a little poorly written
encrypt loop just doing XOR on the key,
entering back over and
writing it out as a file.
So how does this work?
So create a file foo,
put a secret message in there,
and then look at it in hexdump because
it will get ugly when we encrypt it.
As you can see it still says
this is a secret sentence.
Listing the attributes on the file,
there are no current attributes.
Attempting to encrypt the file,
we get an error from fgetx
that that key has not been set.
We'll call it a little command-line
utility setting it to the letter x.
Doing another list,
making sure that it's been set.
Encrypting it, it's now super secret.
You can see.
calling it again and since our
super secret cipher is symmetric.
: This is a secret sentence.
So, again,
it's not really difficult to be dealing
with this extended attribute information,
but it is very critical
because things like this key,
if you were to lose it by saving a file,
now a user might not be able
to have access to their data,
and that's sort of horrible.
Actually, I'm thinking,
done with the demo,
we can cut back to the slides.
in summary, metadata is great.
There are a lot of uses that
I know you guys are going to
come up with for being able to
manipulate and do interesting things.
But by far the focus for Tiger is not
just innovating around the metadata but
by far preserving it as we're going to
be creating it hopefully we don't also
want to be destroying it a lot at the
same time particularly accidentally.
Prevent namespace collisions
using the reverse DNS names only
instead of dots use underscores and
stick to small and ounce for now.
The values should be under 4K
and we'd really appreciate that.
Also, don't go hog wild and implement
a file system layer on top
of the extended attributes.
It's not what it's for.
for more information
please contact Jason Yao.
This is email address Jason@apple.com.
He's a lucky guy.
For more information on encryption you
can look at the key chain services.
Then for the extended attributes
information in general there's the
Mac OS X file system information
on the DVD and then we'll be
actually on hopefully be putting up
some stuff on the reference site.